Behind the Bust: the Lesser-known story of Wilbur D. Mills
By Noah Morris

As soon as you walk into the Mills Center for Social Sciences, the building between the West edge of campus and the Pecan Court, you see a big bust encased in glass, a smiling bookish man named "The Honorable Wilbur D. Mills (1909-1992)". If you walk into the Mills Library, to the left, you’ll find a wonderful study space, decorated with big windows and a wall full of Mills memorabilia. Mills was a Hendrix alum, one who "walks life's straight paths" and possesses a "gay outlook on life", according to quotes from the 1930 Troubador hung up on the wall. A Martin Man, this same source describes him as a victim of Cupid, ‘much to the delight of some fair maidens'. Alas, Mills had the world in his sights, and began attending Harvard Law School. The world rebuked him, and he dropped out after three years, returning to Arkansas a prodigal son. He became the youngest ever judge in White County, where Searcy is, beginning a pre-Medicaid socialized medicine initiative for the elderly. He was then elected to the House of Representatives, and after about 20 years of service he was appointed chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which controls the tax code, tariffs, as well as some social programs like Social Security, foster care, and Medicare. This made him very powerful, and Democrats liked him. 

In 1972, Mills ran for president, which he failed at, dropping out of the race after New Hampshire. Mills mostly lost the election because he wasn’t as charming as George McGovern, but the Chairman had another weakness, one all too familiar to your average Hendrix alum: that dastard bourbon. By the time he lost the election, he said “it was nothing unusual for me to drink a half a gallon a night”. It was around this time that he met Fanne Foxe, an exotic dancer at the Silver Slipper club at 815 13th St. NW. The two were fast friends, frequently photographed cavorting around the District of Columbia. If you believe Foxe’s memoir, she aborted his child to shield Mills’ reputation. Regardless, Mills, Foxe, and both of their spouses moved into Crystal Towers, an upscale apartment complex in Northern Virginia, and the four would play bridge together frequently. Then 1974 came, a year of which Mills claimed to have no memory. His heavy drinking did not render him unable to drive, as he found himself doing at 2 AM on October 7, 1974, with Foxe in shotgun. He was a little cavalier, speeding with no headlights on. When he got pulled over, and police approached his car, Foxe came bursting out loud and reckless, and jumped into the approximately 10 feet deep waters of the Tidal Basin, an artificial reservoir connecting The Potomac and the Washington Channel. 

Despite this scandal, Mills was reelected with 60% of the vote in 1974. He continued to serve, until he was made to step down after running up on stage next to Foxe and making a string of lewd, slurred jokes, followed by a press conference staged in her dressing room, after which he checked into rehab and retired. The next year, Hendrix hurriedly finished construction on its new Mills Center for the Social Sciences, and tried to focus away from this event in its ample selection of Mills memorabilia, relegating Ms. Foxe to a vague footnote. Fortunately for the student body, some kind soul printed out the Wikipedia page and stuck it in the dictionary, making his Personal Life public for as long as it remains.

